If you have followed so far, you will probably agree that the picture of the universe that emerges
from quantum physics is really weird, at least from the point of view of our everyday human experience.
Many strange things happen.
We have the wave particle duality whereby before we observe it, particles do not behave as particles
at all, but as waves.
And yet when we measure it, we always get only point like interactions as an answer.
There is the Heisenberg and Time, Energy Uncertainty Principle in which these particles seem to have
intrinsically fuzzy properties in their position, momentum and energy, so that we can no longer conceive
them as objects with definite physical attributes, but only as objects measured out in time and space.
To describe all of this.
Physicists have come up with what they call the wavefunction, which has the annoying properties of
collapsing immediately at the instant when an observation, of course, and when nobody knows for sure
whether it is a thing that has some reality out there or whether it is simply a mathematical abstraction.
We saw then that particles can tunnel through a barrier, even though they do not have the classical
required amount of energy to do so.
Then because of the ground state of energy, of the vacuum, empty space seems to be not so empty after
all, and according to a probably bit too naive interpretation, lots of particles can quickly pop in
and out of existence, so to speak.
Moreover, even in the quantum domain must be described with probabilities because everything is random
and unpredictable.
This is not the case in the sense of classical physics in which the description of unpredictable events
with statistics reflects our ignorance and limitation in computation in quantum mechanics even can occur
entirely without a cause.
It is a cause less real.
How is it possible that the double slit experiment by maintaining exactly the same experimental condition
and eliminating all possible measurement errors.
Nevertheless, one electron hits the screen in one position while another electron will be found in
a completely different position.
How can this be?
This is only the beginning of a long list of weird things in quantum physics.
What emerges from this picture is a reality that looks tremendously counterintuitive to our understanding
of the physical world from childhood.
Our brains have been trained to see and interpret phenomenon in terms of classical mechanics in which
objects have well-defined properties and do not have these ambiguous behaviours that quantum physics
displays.
On the other hand, it is a fact that quantum physics, as it is with this mathematical structure founded
on the notion of the wavefunction or the state vector which delivers probability waves, works exceptionally
well.
It is able to describe the phenomenon from particle to mullock, molecular physics and also beyond.
And it makes precise quantitative predictions where classical physics fails.
Yet while from the mathematical perspective, everything works fine from a more philosophical one which
tries to make sense of all this and wants to satisfy the human thirst to know the deeper meaning and
essence of things, even the brightest minds were not able to find a clear description.
The math works fine, but at the epistemological and ontological level, nobody agrees.
We also will see how a great physicist and genius like Schrodinger was puzzled by the implications of
quantum physics, which led him to propose the famous quantum cat paradox.
However, among the physicists of the time, the one who was most dissatisfied with the state of affairs
was Albert Einstein.
This was because Einstein series or his own theories.
Above all, special and general relativity relied heavily on the opposite world conception in which
the focus is rather a mathematical approach that preserved elements of the classical mechanics of Newton
and Galileo.
In relativity, everything has well-defined properties.
Particles follow precise path, and at least in principle, everything is predictable, deterministic
without statistical considerations, just as in classical physics.
Contrary to quantum physics, relativity is a purely deterministic theory.
That is one of the reasons why relativity is sometimes categorized as still being a classical theory,
though it's superseded Newton and Newtonian Newtonian mechanics.
Moreover, as we will see in the section about quantum entanglement, quantum theory seems to suggest
even faster than light interaction's something which Einstein could certainly not take seriously because
his own theory of relativity strictly forbade it.
His approach to physical reality was so successful that Einstein was not willing to accept that quantum
physics is a complete theory.
Describing a real world, he looked at it as only a provisional model that sooner or later had to be
replaced by a better theory to account for all those strange and counterintuitive facts in this context.
Einstein once formulated his belief that God does not play dice, referring to the mysterious randomness
of quantum physics.
He expressed this in a letter to Born in 1926 when he said Quantum mechanics is certainly imposing,
but an inner voice tells me that it is not yet the real thing.
The theory says a lot, but does not really bring us closer to the secret of the old one.
I, at any rate, am convinced that he is not playing at DICE.
Much later in 1944, Einstein returned back to this point, still writing to Born, and he said, We
have become antipodean in our scientific expectations.
You believe in the God who plays dice and I incomplete law and order in a world which objectively exists
and which I in a wildly speculative way and trying to capture.
I firmly believe.
But I hope that someone will discover a more realistic way or rather a more tangible basis than it has
been my lot to find even the great initial success of the quantum theory theory does not make me believe
in the fundamental dice game, although I am well aware that our younger colleagues interpret this as
a consequence of senility.
No doubt the day will come when we will see whose instinctive attitude was the correct one.
On the other side of the front was Niels Bohr, not born Baw Baw, Lightbourne was more prone to accepting
the strange reality that quantum physics suggests.
This is not surprising because he had a rather different professional experience.
His theory of the atom structure was not as successful as Einstein's relativity and was quickly replaced
by the quantum mechanical picture itself.
But success relied more on discoveries which had their roots in quantum physics rather than in classical
mechanics.
Therefore, while Einstein was puzzling on the nature and essence of quantum physics, both took a more
pragmatic view of the whole problem.
For him, it was easier to embrace quantum physics, as a matter of fact, that we should accept, as
it is from these two diverging point of view, emerged a debate over the conceptual foundations of quantum
physics, which nowadays is known as Bhau Einstein debate and which took place from about the 1930s
until the end of World War Two.
I understand the approach was to look at loopholes in the theory, some aspects in the current foundations,
which must lead to a contradiction to some form of contradictions or inconsistencies.
He thought that such flaws could finally vindicate the classical understanding of physical reality because
he found it unacceptable to consider a theory that displays such fuzzy and undetermined Rehame as quantum
physics that therefore he tried hard to find some way out, something that would show us that this theory
is incomplete and requires further improvement and development by incomplete.
It is meant that the theory must have hidden variables which assume that the quantum events are caused
by something we haven't yet discovered and which would explain the fuzziness.
This fuzziness and uncertainty and apparent are causality of quantum mechanics.
Einstein and other physicists hope to explain quantum indeterminism and where it appears by resorting
to a deterministic conception of reality, just like the theory of gases, for example, in thermodynamics,
explain the molecular chaos of molecules and atoms with the Brownian motion that is with the exception
of molecules due to thermal effects.
Analogously, a future refined quantum theory should explain its indeterminacy as a superficial manifestation
of hidden components, or at least more general unknown, unknown variables, which in the current,
supposedly incomplete form of the theory are still not evident.
In fact, it is difficult to escape the impression that in a world where things happen only by chance,
just out of the blue, so to speak, apparently with no causal relation, we are eventually missing
something.
The very principle of cause and effect seems to no longer work here.
Is there perhaps something we still don't know, some hidden variables in the theory we don't see that
once found will explain all this reality that is so alien to our daily common sense by returning to
our good old Newtonian and deterministic understanding.
Bore instead argued that there are no hidden variables, quantum mechanics is a complete theory, and
we should accept it as it is because after all, it works well.
It is mathematically consistent and it furnishes the quantitate quantitative predictions we need.
And this is precisely what science should be about.
The rest is philosophy that should not bother physicists for the rest of his life.
Einstein tried to reconcile quantum mechanics with a deterministic understanding of the world.
He published articles in which he proposed interesting and very smart experiments to show why quantum
mechanics couldn't be a complete theory.
The most famous one was written with Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen and is illustrated in the so-called
EPR paradox that we will discuss later.
On his side, Bhau answered Einstein's attacks on the foundations of quantum theory with other articles
in which he showed Einstein's fallacious thinking.
It was an historical and very interesting battle between two titans of science, so to speak.
To provide an example of how this debate developed, it might be interesting to look at how Einstein
argued and Baugh answered with one of the experiments that Einstein proposed.
For instance, Einstein proposed a thought experiment to suggest that quantum mechanics cannot be a
complete theory for the following reasons.
Let us send a single particle through a single slit device as shown in this figure here.
In truth, Einstein argued initially with the double slit.
But for the sake of simplicity, let us illustrate his ideas in a manner that Bore summed up later.
This singers lit hangs at the spring as depicted in the figure and which, by the way, bore himself
through, not how he edits the screws.
And this might say a lot about Paul's personality.
As we know, when the particles pass, this passes as lit.
It will statistically suffer a deflection from the straight incoming direction line, according to Heisenberg's
Uncertainty Principle, or equivalently, if you prefer, because of the wave particle duality.
However, if we maintain that the conservation of momentum is a universally true law, this deflection
of the particle by the lit must also cause a more recoil of the slit itself in the opposite direction.
And we should be able to measure this record by observing houses lit, which is directly attached to
the spring, must move and eventually cause an oscillatory movement of the spring and the slit structure.
It is the particle is deflected upwards, the slit will suffer a recoil downwards.
On the other hand, if the particle is deflected downwards, the slit will suffer a recoil upwards.
Once detected on the other side of the device, we know how large this deflection was.
This means that at least in principle, one should be able to trace back the position of the particle
when it first was lit, the position of the bullet itself and also its momentum at the same time by
observing the recoil.
However, this is contrary to all that Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle states, which excludes the
notion that we can know the position and momentum of a particle at the same time, even in principle,
this is, of course, only an ideal representation of the experiment.
It would be difficult to build such a device for tiny elementary particles as we would need a perfectly
friction free slit and a system which is microscopic compared to the particles.
Extremely precise measurement devices would be necessary to detect any motion produced in it.
That is the reason why they are called thought experiments from the German Gattung, an experiment and
they cannot be realized practically but are nevertheless logically and physically consistent.
This kind of thought experiment was for Einstein, a perfectly legitimate experimental arrangement that
contradicts the conventional interpretation of quantum mechanics, at least Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle, which for this reason must be considered not as fundamental, but a manifestation of a deeper,
hidden variable theory, which in turn means that quantum physics must be considered incomplete.
This was how Einstein's argument went, an argument that seemed quite convincing to Einstein, who certainly
was a very smart guy.
However, Bor was a smart guy, too, and he disagreed.
In fact, he showed that Einstein forgot something very important in this picture, that the uncertainty
of the position of the zealot itself must be taken into account.
Also for the split structure as a whole, despite its being.
A macroscopic object, we must apply the uncertainty principle.
The point is the tiny recoil of the slit, say, caused by an electron, for instance, would be so
extremely small that we must use the rules of quantum physics to determine it.
In his response to Einstein, Bore showed that if we also take into account Heisenberg's uncertainty
relations for the slit, we must also conceive of its position as slightly but not negligible.
Negligibly uncertain.
The oscillations of the slit would be so small its position and momentum shifts due to the electrons
recall would be of the same order of magnitude as the position and momentum and certainty of the particles
that traverse the slit itself.
This uncertainty over the position itself is just that uncertainty that will remove the information
about the magnitude of this, let's recall, and ultimately render Einsteins thought experiment useless
in determining the particles momentum.
Therefore, Einstein thought experiment relied on a fallacious thought, it will not allow us to determine
at the same time the position of momentum of particles, not even in principle, and he could no longer
state that this kind of reasoning leads to any demonstration of the incompleteness of quantum mechanics.
In essence, what Einstein seemed to have forgotten was that there is no reason to believe that Heisenberg's
uncertainty principle no longer holds for macroscopic objects, the uncertainty relations always hold
for any microscopic particle, to any macroscopic object, even for things, for things as big as black
as a planet.
But at the scales of a planet or a microscopic object, the quantum effects are so extremely small and
undetectable that there is no need to take them into account.
Already, the quantum uncertainty on position and momentum for a tiny object like a grain of sand is
far beyond any possibility of detection, even for our most advanced measurement apparatus.
In the context of macroscopic objects like our human body or also a grain of sand, we can simply forget
about it, about the Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.
Not so, however, for thought experiments like that with the recoiling slit, it might help young students,
those who are struggling to learn the basics of physics, to keep in mind that great scientists like
Einstein also made quite blatant errors.
This was one of the most famous examples illustrating the Boer Einstein debate, Bohr and Einstein engaged
each other in a friendly way as gentlemens with respect and mutual admiration.
Regretfully, something one rarely sees nowadays, but defended their own views with papers and articles.
Einstein refused until the last of his days to give up a classical understanding of the world will see
how modern experiments which were performed after Einstein and Borse death clearly indicate that a deterministic
local hidden variable theory is no longer tenable, at least not in a locally realistic form that Einstein
would have desired.
On the other hand, we might also question whether a more pragmatic approach is the final answer to
quantum physics, both approach was more at ease in this intellectual challenge.
While Einstein had to think of more or less complicated, complicated thought experiments trying to
falsify the current conceptions or essentially had to do nothing except reply to reply to Einstein attacks
and defend the status quo.
Borse attitude towards Einstein.
Einstein doubts and his interpretation of quantum physics is nowadays summed up in the so-called Kopenhagen
interpretation of quantum mechanics and interpretation, which is since then was adopted by almost the
entire community of physicists for a long time to come.
It was considered the final nail in the coffin on the subject and is still considered as such by many
physicists as a present day.
However, in the last three decades, thanks to new technology, technological advances that allow us
to perform experiments previously impossible to perform, and due to the well funded research which
attempts to build quantum computers, the debate has returned to the stage and continues to occupy several
philosophers of science and also some physicists.
We will go deeper into this subject in the following lectures.
However, it is important to know what essentially the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics
is about so that we have an idea and perception of the kinds of philosophical and ideological backgrounds
that influence quantum physics to this day.
In reality, the Copenhagen interpretation is not an official declaration that was announced by someone
or during a Congress, it is sometimes somewhat incorrectly associated with a standpoint that supposedly
physicists adopted during the fifth SOLWAY International Conference on Electron Electrons and Photons
in Brasso in 1927.
In this meeting, the most prominent figures of the time convened, such as Einstein, Madame Curie,
Heisenberg, Schrodinger and so on.
However, there is no official statement that emerged from that conference, at least not about the
interpretations of quantum mechanics.
Therefore, the Copenhagen interpretation began to arise during the late 1920s and early 1930s and is
more associated with the figure of Bohr, who was a professor at the university in Copenhagen in Denmark.
There is no piece of paper or historical act that clearly defines this interpretation.
It loosely expresses an understanding and interpretation of of things and a spirit of the of the time,
so to speak.
That is why.
I feel authorized to express it in my own words, even though there are several other ways to express
it as well.
Of course, one way to stay, the Copenhagen interpretation is simply to say that quantum mechanics
is about measurement outcomes.
We should not attempt to infer objective realities from it.
This is a strictly pragmatic and utilitarian approach.
Stop thinking about the deeper philosophical issues to your calculations, see if they fit with the
experiments and be happy with that, especially if they do fit.
In fact, this approach has its logic.
After all, the human mind and the human and scientific mind is one of the senses, a mind which evaluates
in fears and extrapolates and interpretation of the world from empirical data, which, however, can
lead to different models and interpretation interpretations of what is seen.
Think, for example, of the Gestalt figures, you might see two faces or a.
But the figure remains remains the same, you know, this kind of figure that when you look at it first,
you see two faces or the moment later you see a vais.
So in this view, it is dangerous to make these extrapolations according to the Copenhagen interpretation,
which must stop there at least as physicists.
Another typical statement that could be ascribed to the Copenhagen interpretation is of the kind that
wavefunction is only a mathematical abstraction which furnishes probabilities that a specific event
or cause this is not a real physical object.
This, again, is a mathematical, pragmatic approach, simply do your calculations with wavefunction,
but do not attempt to infer from that a deeper ontology of things.
That is the nature of how things are, in reality, independent from what we perceive.
After all, what is reality?
What follows from that is also that according to the Copenhagen interpretation, there is no such thing
as a wavefunction collapse.
This should be considered only a mathematical update of the information we have about the state of the
system.
What collapses is the lack of information about the system state before the measurement.
We don't know while after the measurement, we know something more about the state of a particle system.
So in this view, it is quite natural, a natural thing, and that a collapse seems to occur.
It is just an abstract, formal act of encoding information from one instant before the measurement
to that after the measurement.
The problem is solved because according to this standpoint, no problem exists in the first place.
Yet another statement of the same point of view.
The wavefunction describes the state of a system and is all that can be known about the way function
is, all that can be said, it is futile to ascribe a deeper meaning and reality to it just just as
it is futile to attempt to get more out of it.
Finally comes the question of why then this discrepancy exists between the physics we observe in the
microscopic versus the microscopic.
Why do we see things so differently in the classical world as compared to the quantum one?
The Copenhagen interpretation answers with a well-known Bors correspondence principle, which can be
summed up by saying that a large collection of quantum particles will exhibit classical behavior with
a growing number as a number of particles grows even if they have very different properties and states.
These properties average out when a certain quantity of particles is present, and just that average
emerges on the macroscopic scale, defining the qualities of the world we know.
In other words, according to those who embrace the Copenhagen interpretation, there isn't much to
understand and investigate in terms of the deeper meaning of things, simply let us accept what we observe
and posit it as a principle.
In the first place.
The scientific utilitarianism, which is especially incarnated in the Copenhagen interpretation, might
sound a bit dry and not really satisfying for those inclined towards a deeper understanding of things
and inclination that seeks to find the the the ultimate realities.
However, it is a fact that it worked well for several generations of physicists.
This pragmatic approach gave us the modern standard model of particle physics, which was one of the
most successful theories, not only physics, but of perhaps all science.
It also gave us the modern theories of particle astrophysics and cosmology, as well as allowed us to
build many devices, especially in the electronics branch and in information technologies, computers
and so on.
Therefore, contrary to popular belief for a long time, apart from rare exceptions, physicists no
longer worked on the conceptual foundations of quantum physics but were busy developed, developing
quite complicated mathematical and abstract theories that allowed them to make calculations, predicting
the empiric data not much more.
Even today, most are not working on it, as it is highly unlikely that they will find a job and make
money from this.
And now quite famous sentence with which David Mermin, a physics professor at Cornell University,
summed up the Copenhagen interpretation and its attitude towards foundational IS issues is simply saying
shut up and calculate.
This is how physicists work nowadays, not all, but most, and how physics was and still largely is
taught in universities and regretfully in schools as well.
Do not ask questions, just do your exercise and your homework, which are complicated and time consuming
enough and which leave almost no time and psychological energy to do anything else.
No wonder that in a world so profoundly conditioned by science and technology, the younger generations
are less inclined to apply for studies and jobs that require technical skills.
However, while the human spirit of inquiry can fall asleep for some time and on some occasions for
a very long time, it cannot be suffocated forever.
As we will see in the late 1960s, Sir John Stewart Bell and Northern Irish physicist came along with
very interesting considerations that reopened the gates to new speculation's and new thought experiments,
which could historically be considered a continuation of the Boer Einstein debate.